The term Space Complexity is misused for Auxiliary Space at many places. Following are the correct definitions of Auxiliary Space and Space Complexity.Auxiliary Space is the extra space or temporary space used by an algorithm.Space Complexity of an algorithm is total space taken by the algorithm with respect to the input size.


For example, if we want to compare standard sorting algorithms on the basis of space, then Auxiliary Space would be a better criteria than Space Complexity. Merge Sort uses auxiliary space, Insertion sort and Heap Sort use auxiliary space. Space complexity of all these sorting algorithms is  though.In the best case analysis, we calculate lower bound on running time of an algorithm. We must know the case that causes minimum number of operations to be executed. In the linear search problem, the best case occurs when x is present at the first location. The number of operations in the best case is constant So time complexity in the best case would be Most of the times, we do worst case analysis to analyze algorithms.


In the average case analysis, we must know (or predict) the mathematical distribution of all possible inputs.The Best Case analysis is bogus. Guaranteeing a lower bound on an algorithm doesn’t provide any information as in the worst case, an algorithm may take years to run.For some algorithms, all the cases are asymptotically same, i.e., there are no worst and best cases. For example, Merge Sort. Merge Sort does Θ(nLogn) operations in all cases. Most of the other sorting algorithms have worst and best cases. For example, in the typical implementation of Quick Sort The term Space Complexity is misused for Auxiliary Space at many places. Following are the correct definitions of Auxiliary Space and Space Complexity.Auxiliary Space is the extra space or temporary space used by an algorithm.Space Complexity of an algorithm is total space taken by the algorithm with respect to the input size. Space complexity includes both Auxiliary space and space used by input
